US President Joe Biden is preparing to
head to Israel on Wednesday in meetings
with the government he's expected to
reaffirm America's commitment to
Israel's security he'll also discuss
Israel's war aims and strategy as well
as the need to protect the lives of
civilians and enable Aid to reach Gaza
it comes as Israel presses on with air
strikes and prepares for a ground
invasion of The
Enclave its first light and the extent
of Israel's military buildup on its
border with Gaza becomes
clearer troops battle ready as they
prepare for a ground offensive that
could begin at any
moment overnight the Israeli Defense
Forces continued their air strikes on
the Gaza Strip they're targeting the
militant islamist group Hamas in
retaliation for its deadly Terror
attacks on
Israel
Israeli warships have also been firing
missiles at Gaza from the sea but the
conflict is in danger of escalating
further in the North of Israel troops
have advanced close to the Lebanon
Israel border as tensions between Israel
and the iran-backed militant group
Hezbollah
increase Israel has released footage of
strikes targeting what it claims is
military infrastructure in Lebanon
belonging to Hezbollah and it says it
carried out an attack on what it
described as a group of militants from
Lebanon attempting to infiltrate a
security
fence Iran meanwhile has raised the
stakes further by warning of a
preemptive attack against
Israel before leaving Israel US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin said
the US president's visit this week is
also a
warning President Biden will underscore
our crystal clear message to any actor
state or non-state trying to take
advantage of this crisis to attack
Israel
don't for now though Gaza already Under
Fire waits for Israel and world powers
to take the next
step there have been more clashes on the
border between Israel and Lebanon
Israeli forces and militant groups in
Lebanon have engaged in a series of
lowlevel skirmishes DW's bureau chief in
Beirut Muhammad Traer gave us the
latest well scrimish and and clashes on
the Lebanese Israeli borders continue
for the 10th day in a row after a
relatively calm night uh this morning
tension rose again when the Israeli Army
stroke what it said is a group of
militants attempting an incursion into
uh Israel and this initiated a new round
of crossb
shelling we've seen so far that
infiltration attempts from Lebanon have
been led by Palestinian militants and
not by members of the Lebanese hasah
however hasah has been claiming the
attacks on Israeli posts uh along the
border it is clear that the armed group
is seeking to distract Israel at the
northern front to kind of disrupt
Israel's military operations in in Gaza
in the south
tell us more about how this unrest could
shape this
conflict well everything on the Lebanese
Israeli front tells us that uh this
front is really heating up the rounds of
scrimmages are becoming more intense
it's it's remarkable in fact the past 48
hours were the most intense in in terms
of quality and quantity since the crossb
shelling between hasah and the Israeli
Army emerged 10 days ago now Israel has
been keen on saying that it has no
interest in escalating the situation on
its northern border even though it
expressed Readiness for so while hasah
from the other side has been um vague
about engaging in a large scale war with
with is Israel although his attacks are
still remarkably very calculated and
within accepted Rules of Engagement I
would say but this is a very Ry game
that both sides are playing that could
really slip into a war at any moment
Israel has evacuated residents in the
north what about
Lebanon well we've seen I mean the
evacuation of Lebanese citizens from
Southern towns uh was remarkable last
week we've seen and and talked to
families that are taking Refuge now in
schools in uh Southern cities away from
the uh borders other families just
headed to words Beirut left uh the
southern region uh but these are all U
personal initiatives I would say
Lebanese have been stocking food and and
fuel supplies the caretaker government
has very limited resources to provide
any sort of support at this level the
country is reeling from financial and
economic collapse amid huge political
divide okay we leave it there thank you
very much for bringing us up to dat
Muhammad trer the DW's bureau chief in
Beirut